Artificial Analysis Benchmarking Methodology | Artificial Analysis
Artificial Analysis
K
Artificial Analysis
Models
Coding Agents
Speech, Image, Video
Inference
Leaderboards
About
AI Trends
Arenas
K
On this page
Scope
Language Model Intelligence
Speech, Image, Video & Music
Inference
Misc.
Definitions
Artificial Analysis Benchmarking Methodology
Scope
Artificial Analysis performs intelligence, quality, performance and price benchmarking on AI models, inference API endpoints and systems. This section of our website describes our benchmarking methodology, including both our quality benchmarking and performance benchmarking.
For our language model benchmarking, we note that we consider endpoints to be serverless when customers only pay for their usage, not a fixed rate for access to a system. Typically this means that endpoints are priced on a per token basis, often with different prices for input and output tokens.
Across all modalities, our performance benchmarking measures the end-to-end performance experienced by customers of AI inference services and systems. This means that benchmark results are not intended to represent the maximum possible performance on any particular hardware platform, they are intended to represent the real-world performance customers experience across providers.
We benchmark both proprietary and open weights models.
Language Model Intelligence
Language Model Intelligence
Capability Indices
Small Language Model Intelligence
Endpoint Accuracy Index
Coding Agents
Speech, Image, Video & Music
Speech to Text
Text to Speech
Speech to Speech
Text to Image
Video Generation
Music Generation
Inference
Language Model API Performance
System Load Test (AA-SLT)
AA-AgentPerf
Misc.
Openness Index
Search API
Definitions
On this page, and across the Artificial Analysis website, we use the following terms:
Model:
A large language model (LLM), including proprietary, open source and open weights models.
Model Creator:
The organization that developed and trained the model. For example, OpenAI is the creator of GPT-4 and Meta is the creator of Llama 3.
Endpoint:
A hosted instance of a model that can be accessed via an API. A single model may have multiple endpoints across different providers.
System:
A dedicated compute environment for running AI models, typically provisioned infrastructure such as a VM, which can be benchmarked for performance under load.
Provider:
A company that hosts and provides access to one or more model endpoints or systems. Examples include OpenAI, AWS Bedrock, Together.ai and more. Companies are often both Model Creators and Providers.
Serverless:
Cloud service provided on an as-used basis, in relation to LLM inference APIs generally means priced per token of input and output. Serverless cloud products do still run on servers!
Open Weights:
A model whose weights have been released publicly by the model's creator. We refer to 'open weights' or just 'open' models rather than 'open-source' as many open LLMs have been released with licenses that do not meet the full definition of open-source software.
Token:
Modern LLMs are built around tokens - numerical representations of words and characters. LLMs take tokens as input and generate tokens as output. Input text is translated into tokens by a tokenizer. Different LLMs use different tokenizers.
OpenAI Tokens:
Tokens as generated by OpenAI's GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 tokenizer, generally measured for Artificial Analysis benchmarking with OpenAI's tiktoken package for Python (o200k_base tokenizer). We use OpenAI tokens as a standard unit of measurement across Artificial Analysis to allow fair comparisons between models. All 'tokens per second' metrics refer to OpenAI tokens.
Native Tokens:
Tokens as generated by an LLM's own tokenizer. We refer to 'native tokens' to distinguish from 'OpenAI tokens'. Prices generally refer to native tokens.
Price (Input/Output):
The price charged by a provider per input token sent to the model and per output token received from the model. Prices shown are the current prices listed by providers.
Price (Blended):
To enable easier comparison, we calculate a blended price assuming a 7:2:1 ratio of cache hit, input, and output tokens.
Cost per Task:
The weighted-average cost (USD) to complete one Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index task. This is calculated by multiplying input, cached, and output token prices by tokens consumed across the workload, weighted by the
same per-benchmark weights the Intelligence Index uses
, then dividing by task count. Price is either the provider's first-party API rate or the median across all providers. Caching costs differ by provider. Because cost reflects actual token usage, models that produce longer answers or more reasoning tokens will have a higher cost per task, even at identical per-token prices.
where i = each benchmark in the Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index and w = that benchmark's weight in the Index
Time to First Token:
The time in seconds between sending a request to the service or system and receiving the first token of the response. For reasoning models which return reasoning tokens, this will be the first reasoning token.
Time to First Answer Token:
The time in seconds between sending a request to the service or system and receiving the first answer token of the response. For reasoning models, this is measured after any 'thinking' time.
Output Speed (output tokens per second):
The average number of tokens received per second, after the first token is received.
Total Response Time for 100 Output Tokens:
The number of seconds to generate 100 output tokens, calculated synthetically based on TTFT and Output Speed to assure maximum comparison utility.
End-to-End Response Time:
The total time to receive a complete response, including input processing time, model reasoning time, and answer generation time.
Average Reasoning Tokens:
Time reasoning models spend outputting 'reasoning' tokens before providing an answer. This is calculated based on the average number of 'reasoning' tokens across a diverse set of 60 prompts. Where the average number of reasoning tokens is not available or has not yet been calculated, we assume 2k reasoning tokens. These prompts are of varied lengths and include coverage of a range of topics including, personal-related queries, commercial-related queries, coding, math, science and others. Prompts are a combination of being written by Artificial Analysis and others sourced from the following evaluations: MMLU Pro, AIME 2025, and LiveCodeBench. These prompts can be accessed
here
.
Artificial Analysis
Get notified about new articles
Email address
Subscribe
Artificial Analysis
Explore
LLM Leaderboard
Image Arena
Video Arena
AI Agents
Evaluations
Products
Optima
MicroEvals
Model Recommender
Data Playground
Image Lab
Company
About
Methodology
Services
Contact
Articles
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Rednote
Discord
©
2026
Artificial Analysis
Terms of Use
Data Platform Terms
Privacy Policy
English